Our project, EthiScan, offers a comprehensive solution to address Dark Patterns on E-Commerce platforms. Leveraging cutting-edge technologies and innovative approaches, our solution aims to provide an approach that can Safeguard the users and create awareness about the Manipulative Tactics used by E-Commerce Platforms.
At its core, EthiScan consists of a Browser Extension, a Mobile Application, and an Admin Panel. It offers a comprehensive approach that Detects and Validate different Dark Patterns in E-Commerce with a great focus on User Interface and User Experience. Through the use of Large Language Models and advanced Machine Learning Models, our solution is capable of detecting 14 types of Dark Patterns which are Activity Notification, Confirm Shaming, Countdown Timers, Forced Enrollment, Hard to Cancel, Hidden Subscriptions, High-demand Messages, Limited-time Messages, Low-stock Message, Pressured Selling, Testimonials of Uncertain Origin, Trick Questions, Visual Interference Fake Review.
EthiScan recognizes that there is a fine line between Dark Patterns and Legitimate Marketing Strategies, so it moves forward by performing Validation on Major Marketing Strategies, which are Activity Notification, Limited-time Messages, Low-stock Messages, and Countdown Timers.
Furthermore, it covers the manipulative tactics that are frequently used on E-commerce Platforms such as Hidden Cost, Bait & Switch, Pre-Checked Box, Hidden Terms and Conditions, and Subscription Trap.
Another feature that EthiScan covers is Monitoring the trends of Dark Patterns on E-Commerce, as a result, provides an Admin Panel to monitor all trends and gain insights from them by representing the information in the form of graphs.
Hence, EthiScan with its Multi-Disciplinary approach targets every possible Dark Pattern with the highest concern for User Privacy and User Experience.
